[Chore] Update the documentation to better conform to the USG (#76)
canonical/ubuntu-security-documentation: security-features/platform-protections/secure-boot.rst

signed by Canonical using the same UEFI key as GRUB and is validated by
``shim``.

``MokManager`` provides a console for users to enroll new public keys (for
example, for custom kernels or bootloaders), remove previously trusted keys,
enroll binary hashes for hash-based verification, and enable or disable Secure
Boot enforcement at the ``shim`` level. Most of these operations require user
authentication, so the user must configure a password during the previous boot
phase. This password is valid for a single run of ``shim`` and ``MokManager``
and is cleared as soon as the process completes or is canceled.

Once key management completes, the system reboots since the updated keys might
be required to validate the next stages of the boot process.

Booting with GRUB
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As with ``MokManager``, GRUB is signed by Canonical with the UEFI key. ``shim``
validates it and loads GRUB.

Once validated, GRUB loads its configuration from the ``/boot`` partition and
uses it to locate the kernel and initrd.

In Secure Boot mode, the kernel is typically a self-contained EFI binary signed
by Canonical. GRUB loads this signed kernel and validates its signature. If

> valid, the kernel takes control of the system. Note that initrd images aren't

Author: I think that's only true for the newer UKI method but for not the most common (Standard/Split Boot) implementation of Secure Boot (which I think is what is being referenced here)

running.

Once loaded and validated, the kernel disables the firmware's Boot Services and
enters user mode, where access to UEFI variables is read-only. Given the broad
permissions afforded to kernel modules, any module not built into the kernel
must also be validated before loading. Modules built and shipped by Canonical
are signed by the Canonical UEFI key. Custom-built modules require you to sign
them before the kernel can load them. See `How to sign your own UEFI binaries
for Secure Boot <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UEFI/SecureBoot/Signing>`_.

Unsigned modules aren't loaded by the kernel. Any attempt to insert them with
``insmod`` or ``modprobe`` fails with an error message.

Since many users rely on third-party modules that must be built locally, Ubuntu
provides tools to automate and simplify the signing process, ensuring these
modules can be loaded into the kernel.

Machine-Owner Keys (MOK) management
===================================

The MOKs generated at installation time or on upgrade are machine-specific. The
kernel or ``shim`` allows them only to sign kernel modules by using a specific
KeyUsage OID (``1.3.6.1.4.1.2312.16.1.2``) denoting the limitations of the MOK.

> Recent ``shim`` versions have stricter limitations for module-signing-only

Reviewer: Change recent with version number or reference to Ubuntu release.

Author: ```suggestion
Starting with ``shim`` version 15.4, introduced in Ubuntu 21.04 (Hirsute Hippo), ``shim`` has stricter limitations for module-signing-only
```

aware that this weakens Secure Boot’s protections and should use it cautiously.

For unofficial kernels or kernels built by users, you need to take additional
steps to load such kernels while retaining UEFI Secure Boot capabilities. All
kernels must be signed to load by GRUB when UEFI Secure Boot is enabled, so you
must proceed with your own signing. Alternatively, you can disable validation
in shim while booted with Secure Boot enabled on an official kernel by using
``sudo mokutil --disable-validation``, providing a password when prompted, and
rebooting; or disable Secure Boot in firmware altogether.

MOK generation and signing process
----------------------------------

The key generation and signing process differs slightly depending on whether it
is a new installation or an upgrade of a system previously running Ubuntu.

In all cases, if the system isn't booting in UEFI mode, no special kernel
module signing steps or key generation occur.

If Secure Boot is disabled, MOK generation and enrollment still happen, as you
might enable Secure Boot later. The system should work properly in that case.

A new installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You step through the installer. Early on, when preparing to install and only if

Author: First sentence is unnecessary
```suggestion
Early on, when preparing to install and only if
```

the system requires third-party modules, you are prompted for a system password
clearly marked as required after the install is complete. While the system
installs, a new MOK is automatically generated without further user
interaction.

Third-party drivers or kernel modules required by the system are automatically
built when the package is installed, and the build process includes a signing
step. This step automatically uses the MOK generated earlier to sign the
module, so it can be immediately loaded once the system reboots and the MOK is
included in the system's trust database.

Once the installation is complete and the system restarts, ``MokManager`` (part
of the installed shim loader) presents a set of text-mode panels allowing you
to enroll the generated MOK at first boot. Select **Enroll MOK**, view the
certificate fingerprint, and confirm enrollment. Once confirmed, the new MOK is
entered in firmware, and you are asked to reboot the system.

When the system reboots, third-party drivers signed by the newly enrolled MOK
load as necessary.

Upgrade of a system
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> On upgrade, the ``shim`` and ``shim-signed`` packages upgrade. The

Reviewer: First sentence doesn't make sense.

``shim-signed`` package's post-install tasks generate a new MOK and prompt you
for a password required once the upgrade completes and the system reboots.

> During the upgrade, kernel packages and third-party modules upgrade.

Reviewer: First sentence doesn't make sense.

> Third-party modules rebuild for the new kernels, and their post-build process

Reviewer: Active voice (rebuild) doesn't make sense.
